---
title: "Welcome.exe"
categories:
  - General
header:
  image: assets/images/intro2.png
  
---

## Welcome to the blog! 

If you're here, it means you have some curiosity of cyber security and this blog is finally live! I've been working on this blog off and on (more off really) for the last year. At first, I started writing because I thought it would be a fun side project to do. Then I realized that I could take this platform and use it to possibly educate people on these topics AND still have fun writing the articles in the process. 

Call it "cyber security 101" or "cyber security for dummies," I've tried to create as much practicality in the articles as possible. These are all topics that I think are relevant to the cyber world today, but I am more than open to any suggestions on topics that you think I should cover. I think the categories are pretty self-explanatory. The only section I'd avoid potentially is the "CTF/pentesting" one. I have ideas on that section to build it out more, but that will get done in time.

I've left my Linkedin, github and email contact on the side bar. If you know me IRL, then there are easier ways to contact me. However, shooting me an email is fine as well. My email is, **freshprinceofhacking@protonmail.com**. I can't promise I'll respond to you quickly, but I will try! It will depend mostly on how busy I am, but expect at least one article per week or so. If anything, I'll try to have something up in the "General" section on a consistent basis. 

The best way to keep up with new posts being added is to subscribe to the site via **RSS**. If you're not familiar with RSS, it's basically a web feed that is dedicated to allowing users to access updates to web content. In my opinion, this is better than a traditional email subscription feature because you won't have to worry about giving away your email address, or have your email platform mistake the incoming email updates for spam. [Here are some RSS feed readers](https://www.wpsuperstars.net/free-rss-feed-readers/) you can download to get started. Most have free versions, but if you plan to expand your RSS feeds to other many websites, there are paid ones as well. 

Enjoy the blog! :)
